---
order: 1
name: The metadata configuration file
---

# Metadata overview

The `metadata.json` file, at the root of the project, is where all of the
information that are not text are stored. Ths includes the manuscript title,
affiliations, the abstract and keywords, and the citation style.

**Note that** the license is, by default, CC-BY 4.0. This is hardcoded in the
template. There are no plans to support other CC licenses for now.

# Manuscript metadata

The `title` field (a single string of text) stores the full manuscript title.
The `keywords` array is a list of strings, which represents the keywords
associated to the manuscript.

# Affiliations

The information on authorship and affiliations are stored in an array of author
blocks, with a *very specific* format. The authors are filled in the order in
which they appear, and the affiliations are filled in the same way.

## Author metadata

An author is defined by *at least* two fields: `familyname` and `givennames`. In
addition, you can (should) specify an `orcid` and an `email`. For some authors,
you might add a `status` *array*, the values of which can be `corresponding` and
`equal`.

## Affiliations

The `affiliations` are part of the author object, and are represented as an
array of text. Note that the conversion to numbered affiliations is handled by
the script, and that the affiliations that have the same string will be matched.

# Abstract

This template supports three types of abstracts, indicated in the metadata file
as `abstract`:

A regular `abstract` is defined as

~~~json
"abstract": "A very long string"
~~~

An itemized abstract is an array of strings, each representing a bullet point:

~~~json
"abstract": [
    "Point 1",
    "Point 2"
]
~~~

A structured abstract is an object with key-value pairs :

~~~json
"abstract": {
    "Location": "Worldwide",
    "Organisms": "Mammals"
}
~~~

# Citation style

The `citationstyle` key corresponds to the name, with `.csl` ommited, of a CSL
stylesheet stored in the [citation style language][csl] repository. Note that
there is no difference between main and dependent styles, the build engine will
take the correct steps to get the correct style. The default is
`"citationstyle": "ecology-letters"`. There is a longer section about references
management in the main text.

[csl]: https://github.com/citation-style-language/